docs: HRE implementation notes (#169)
input-output-hk/hermes: docs/src/architecture/08_concepts/hermes_runtime_engine/hre_structure.md

and [*Hermes engine's*][*Hermes engine*] runtime itself.

Each [*HRE*] implementation take place inside `hermes/bin/srs/runtime_extensions` directory,
for both Hermes related and WASI specific.

Here is an example of the [WIT] files for the some [hermes-cron] [*HRE*]:

`world.wit`

```wit
package hermes:cron;

world all {
    import api;
    export event;
}
```

`event.wit`

```wit
interface event {
    use api.{cron-event-tag, cron-tagged};

    on-cron: func(event: cron-tagged, last: bool) -> bool;
}

world cron-event {
    export event;
}
```

`api.wit`

```wit
interface api {    
    type cron-event-tag = string;

    type cron-sched = string;

    record cron-tagged {
        when: cron-sched,

        tag: cron-event-tag
    }

    add: func(entry: cron-tagged, retrigger: bool) -> bool;
    rm: func(entry: cron-tagged) -> bool;
    
    ...
}

world cron-api {
    import api;
}
```

*Hermes events*:

* `on-cron: func(event: cron-tagged, last: bool) -> bool;`
  
*HRE api*:

* `add: func(entry: cron-tagged, retrigger: bool) -> bool;`
* `rm: func(entry: cron-tagged) -> bool;`

## Host implementation structure

> Hermes host runtime implementation based on the [wasmtime] Rust library.
> It auto-generates a code based on the [WIT] files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Hermes host runtime is implemented using the [wasmtime](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime). 
It automatically generates code based on the WIT files:
```

```Rust
use wasmtime::component::bindgen;

bindgen!({
    world: "hermes",
    path: "path/to/the/wit/files/dir",
});
```

> Under the hood it generates a set of different traits, structs, functions etc.
> which are based on the [WIT] files and provides a type safe interface for interaction
> with WASM modules and for implementation host functionality.
> 
> All host implementations for a specific [*HRE*]
> are defined inside corresponded `../hermes/cron/host.rs` and looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internally, it generates a diverse set of traits, structs, functions, and more derived from the WIT files. 
This process results in a type-safe interface for interacting with WASM modules and implementing host functionalities.

All host implementations specific to a particular [*HRE*] are defined within the corresponding
`host.rs` files.

For example, here is an example for `../hermes/cron/host.rs `:
```

ps: I'm not sure if I understood the last two lines corectly.

Author: All good, it was specifically what I meant

Reviewer: There is a difference in what I proposed and what you added.  
You said that ALL host implementation live in `/hermes/cron/host.rs`.

# HRE structure

[Hermes Runtime Extension (*HRE*)][*HRE*] - stands as logically separate module (like a library) of the [*Hermes engine*]
and provides an additional functionality to the Hermes runtime, therefore to [*Hermes application*].
[WIT] files represent a source of truth of the [*Hermes events*] and *HRE api* definitions for a specific [*HRE*],
and describe a standardized communication interface between [*Hermes application*]
and [*Hermes engine's*][*Hermes engine*] runtime itself.

Each [*HRE*] implementation take place inside `hermes/bin/srs/runtime_extensions` directory,
for both Hermes related and WASI specific.

> Here is an example of the [WIT] files for the [hermes-cron] [*HRE*]:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example [WIT] files for the [hermes-cron] [*HRE*]
```

> Here is an example of the [WIT] files for the some [hermes-cron] [*HRE*]:

Reviewer 3: remove some?

> `world.wit`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `world.wit`
```

```wit

> package hermes:cron;

Reviewer 2: Include the contents of the file directly, rather than copy/pasting.
Otherwise if we change the cron .wit files the docs will be immediately out of date.
See the `docs/src/appendix/important/license.md` and `docs/src/api/index.md` files as an example how to do this.
You will also need to include the `.wit` files in the `wasi-hermes-docs` artifact so they are visible to the docs build.

Using the contents of the the `.wit` files directly will also tell us if we break something.  For example rename a file that would make the docs no longer accurate.

Reviewer 2: Alternatively do not refer to a real extension at all, but make an "example" extension which shows off the features you want to describe.  The example extension then just lives in the documentation as a way of explaining how it hangs together, there are no real `.wit` files for it.

Author: Got it, yea, make sense

Author: fixed, but cannot test because krokie is down 😊

world all {
    import api;
    export event;
}
```

> `event.wit`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `event.wit`
```

```wit

> interface event {

Reviewer 2: Same as above, include code file contents, not a copy/paste of it.

    use api.{cron-event-tag, cron-tagged};

    on-cron: func(event: cron-tagged, last: bool) -> bool;
}

world cron-event {
    export event;
}
```

> `api.wit`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `api.wit`
```

```wit

> interface api {    

Reviewer 2: Same as above, include code file contents, not a copy/paste of it.
You can also include just a section of the file if you want to truncate it like you do here.

    type cron-event-tag = string;

    type cron-sched = string;

    record cron-tagged {
        when: cron-sched,

        tag: cron-event-tag
    }

    add: func(entry: cron-tagged, retrigger: bool) -> bool;
    rm: func(entry: cron-tagged) -> bool;
    
    ...
}

world cron-api {
    import api;
}
```

> *Hermes events*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Hermes events
```

Don't use markup as section headings, use section headings.

* `on-cron: func(event: cron-tagged, last: bool) -> bool;`
  

> *HRE api*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### HRE api
```

Don't use markup as section headings, use section headings.

* `add: func(entry: cron-tagged, retrigger: bool) -> bool;`
* `rm: func(entry: cron-tagged) -> bool;`

## Host implementation structure

The Hermes host runtime is implemented using the [wasmtime].
It automatically generates code based on the WIT files:

```Rust
use wasmtime::component::bindgen;

bindgen!({
    world: "hermes",
    path: "path/to/the/wit/files/dir",
});
```

Internally, it generates a diverse set of traits, structs, functions, and more derived from the WIT files.
This process results in a type-safe interface for interacting with WASM modules and implementing host functionalities.

All host implementations specific to a particular [*HRE*] are defined within the corresponding
`host.rs` files.

> For example `../hermes/cron/host.rs`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Example `../hermes/cron/host.rs`
```

```Rust
use crate::{
    runtime_extensions::{
        bindings::{
            hermes::cron::api::{CronEventTag, CronTagged, Host},
            wasi::clocks::monotonic_clock::Instant,
        },
    },
    state::HermesState,
};

impl Host for HermesState {

    fn add(&mut self, entry: CronTagged, retrigger: bool) -> wasmtime::Result<bool> {
        ...
    }

    fn rm(&mut self, entry: CronTagged) -> wasmtime::Result<bool> {
        ...
    }
    ...
}
```

All [*Hermes events*] implementations specific to a particular [*HRE*] are defined within the corresponding
`event.rs` files.

> For example `../hermes/cron/event.rs`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Example `../hermes/cron/event.rs`:
```

```Rust
/// On cron event
struct OnCronEvent {
    /// The tagged cron event that was triggered.
    tag: CronTagged,
    /// This cron event will not retrigger.
    last: bool,
}

impl HermesEventPayload for OnCronEvent {
    fn event_name(&self) -> &str {
        "on-cron"
    }

    fn execute(&self, module: &mut crate::wasm::module::ModuleInstance) -> anyhow::Result<()> {
       module.instance.hermes_cron_event().call_on_cron(
            &mut module.store,
            &self.tag,
            self.last,
        )?;
        Ok(())
    }
}
```

***NOTE*** that these [*Hermes event*][*Hermes events*] host definitions
are not an implementation of the [*Hermes event*][*Hermes events*] itself.

> It is a way how to execute [*Hermes event*][*Hermes events*]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is the method that allows the hermes runtime to execute [*Hermes event*][*Hermes events*]
```
